When you use the code-first approach,
you can use the JAXB annotations to customize how exactly you want
your Java classes to be translated into XML Schema.
With the schema-first approach,
there are also a lot of possibilities for customizing.
Let's take a look at how exactly you can do this.
Sometimes the default way that xjc translates an XML
Schema to Java classes is not ideal.
To get better generated classes,
one thing you could do is try to tweak the schema so that XJC will
generate the classes as you would like to have them.
One example of this that you've just learned about is defining the
root element in the XSD with an anonymous type so that a class with
an XmlRootElement annotation is generated.
Besides tweaking the structure of the XSD,
it's also possible to provide JAXB-specific instructions called binding
customizations either in the XSD directly or in a separate file.
To customize the binding of a specific element or type in the XSD,
you can add an xs annotation element to the element or type declaration,
with inside it an xs:appinfo element, with inside that,
JAXB-specific binding customization elements.
In a moment, we'll take a look at different things you can customize,
but let's look at a quick first example to make more clear how this works.
Remember from the code-first approach that we could modify the
name of a generated complexType by specifying it with the name
attribute of the XmlType annotation.
Let's see how we can do the same thing but the other way
around with the schema-first approach.
To do this,
I first have to define a namespace prefix in the XSD for
the JAXB binding customization namespace,
and I have to add a JAXB version attribute.
Then let's take a look at the complexType named customer.
I can add an xs annotation element to it with an xs:appinfo,
and then inside there,
I can add a jaxb:class element with a name attribute to specify the
name of the class that I want for this complexType,
for example, CustomerType.
If I now run xjc,
you'll see that I get a class named CustomerType instead of Customer.
The big disadvantage of putting binding customizations inside the XSD
itself is that you'll have to modify the XSD file for this.
If you get the XSD from someone else, or if you get it from,
for example, an external organization who maintains it,
then you'll not want to modify the XSD file itself.
To solve this disadvantage,
xjc allows you to put the customizations in a separate
bindings file instead of inside the XSD itself.
Let's quickly take a look at how we can do the same
thing we just did with a bindings file.
Let's create a file, bindings.
xjb.
JAXB bindings files often have the extension xjb,
although this is not absolutely required.
The root element of this file is a jaxb:bindings element with the necessary
namespace prefix definitions and a version attribute.
Inside the root element, we can put different things.
For this simple example,
we'll put a nested jaxb:bindings element in there with a schema
location attribute and also a note attribute,
which has as its value an XPath expression that points to the
element in the XSD to which this applies.
It's out of scope for this course to explain how XPath works,
but what this expression means is easy to understand.
The xs:complexType element inside the xs:schema element which
has an attribute name with the value customer.
Finally, inside this bindings element,
we put the name jaxb:class element that we had inside the
xs:appinfo element in the XSD in the first example.
When I now run xjc,
I have to tell it on the command line to use the bindings file bindings.
xjb, and then, of course,
we'll again get a class CustomerType instead of Customer.
In the next clips, you'll learn more about binding customizations.
I cannot give you a complete overview of all possible
customizations because that would be a very long list,
but we will take a look at a number of practical examples that will give you an idea of what the possibilities are.